hi my name is Nasir karma I'm currently
a graduate on undergraduate medicine
course at King's College London I'm 22
years old and I won't start making
YouTube videos I've been through the
process of applying to both UK and
Canadian medical schools and have
learned a lot of things along the way I
think I might be able to help some
people not give them insight into my
experience or maybe some tips that they
didn't know hopefully this will be a fun
thing to do today so just a little bit
of background about me I was born in
Vancouver in July of 1995 and I soon
after moved to Greece two months later
for my dad's work that's why I spent 8
almost 18 years of my life for lower
school middle school in high school I
went to a British school which means
that I did the I GCSEs and the IB
program when I was leaving high school
in my final year not to decide where to
apply to I was new I wanted to do
medicine so at least that part was easy
for me I was applying to the UK as my
main choice I really wanted to go to the
UK because all my friends were going
there it was the only schools I'd heard
about from my career's like centre type
thing at my high school and it was the
only thing I knew about really I knew
they had a great medical schools and I
was just really excited to go I applied
to those schools
I took the you figure and the Bema but
at the time I didn't take them too
seriously because I had just done really
well in high school in general and
because I was always such a good student
I thought I was immune to doing bad on
tests so I didn't put in enough effort
into the UK calendar Bheema I got a very
average score as a result I didn't get
accepted into any new K medical schools
I did get an interview at Cambridge but
I completely botched that because I was
just so nervous it was my first time in
an interview type setting I didn't get
into the UK and I had counted as my
backup I had applied to a bunch of
Canadian schools when I got into all of
them out of high school
UBC so University of British Columbia
the University of Montreal
now it's called McGill sorry
UVC McGill University of Toronto
University of Ottawa I believe it's also
important to remember that in Canada
it's a four-year undergraduate degree so
I went there when I was 17 I came in
when I was 21 and I'm sorry medical
school at the age of 22 yeah Toronto was
really a lot a lot of fun had a great
time and there's so many experiences to
share from there but I guess we'll leave
those for another video after getting
accepted to all of
graduate schools in Canada that I had
applied to I decided to go to the
University of Toronto because I had done
two weeks summer camp experience back in
2012 I've gone there with my twin sister
and we had a lot of fun so it was the
only school that I had she knew
something about and I was like all right
let's let's go there let's try it so I
went to the University of Toronto I had
a fantastic time there it was a really
tough first and second year because
there's a lot of a culture change moving
from Europe to Canada and also the
school is extremely extremely hard if
anyone knows anything about U of T
you'll know how difficult that school is
did my undergraduate there somehow go
through and then when I came to my third
year so when I said I'd start thinking
about where I wanted to go for medical
school I was thinking about applying
again both the UK and Canada and I knew
that Canadian medical schools were
extremely extremely competitive I had
heard so many stories about friends from
the peers that had applied with really
good GPA is really good research really
good extracurriculars everything I'm
still gone rejected so I knew that I
wanted to apply to the UK as as a back
even though the UK was probably my first
choice at the time I felt like I needed
a change from Canada I've been there for
four years already and I wasn't sure if
I could spend another five years in that
country and I wanted to experience
something new I wanted to travel so I
think that the UK was my first choice at
the time but at the end of the day I was
gonna go to whatever medical school
accepted me so I'd already spent four
years now in medical school doing an
undergraduate degree and I was just so
eager to get in at this point that
started Canada so up in Canada I applied
to all the schools in Ontario University
of Toronto University of Ottawa McGill
and also University of British Columbia
I was born there and Western and
McMaster so I applied to all those
schools I didn't get a single interview
I spent so much time on the UM SAS
application on all the special essays
for U of T medical school just a whole
lot of work and I didn't get in anywhere
I had a GPA over 3.8 one which i think
is a quite a good GPA and I worked
really really hard to get it but anyway
I didn't get into Canada and then in the
UK I decided to be a little bit more
strategic so this time instead of
applying to only the most elite schools
I could think of I applied to Bristol
Kings Southampton and
Queen Mary's I ended up getting
interviews from Southampton Bristol and
Kings Queen Mary's rejected me without
an interview I ended up going to both
Bristol and Kings for interviews but I
didn't go to Southampton because I was
in Canada so I had to fly to the UK for
every interview that I did and I had a
lot of assignments and work to do in
Canada for my degree so I was trying to
balance that at the same time when my
Southampton interview came through I was
already accepted into Bristol and I knew
that I would choose Bristol over
Southampton so there was no point in me
going I emailed one of my professors to
let them know that I had an interview
three days before their mid turn so I
said hey I'm gonna spend the week and a
half before that practicing really hard
for my interview so I'm not gonna spend
as much time on the midterm is it
possible to move that midterm back one
week or if I could skip that midterm and
have the waiting pushed to my final exam
he writes back to me in the email please
see it was like line 30 of page 5 of our
syllabus so I go check the syllabus that
line read no exceptions will be made for
students because of poor time management
skills so that was really harsh nothing
gonna move no single on my midterms and
I'll sing one of my assignments I still
have to work on those and complete those
while preparing for interviews while
flying to different country being jet
lag themselves are really difficult
period of my life but then once I got my
acceptance into Bristol that was the
first acceptance like god I was so over
the moon I remember I was in the library
studying for that chemistry midterm and
after that I was really relaxed in
school I was really chill dog because I
knew that pretty much unless I failed
every single course in my last semester
I was gonna be fine and I was ready to
go to Bristol Bristol I actually really
really like the city when I went I loved
all the people that I met buildings were
pretty the facilities of the medical
school seemed great and of course I had
done extensive research on the medical
school in the course and I thought it
was a good fit for me but when I got
accepted into Kings that was not an easy
choice for me because Kings is in
central London and I'd rather be in
London than an outskirt City my sister
studied here she's she's currently about
started working as a lawyer also a lot
of my high school friends were in London
there were just so many reasons pushing
me towards London so what I got when I
got that acceptance to Kings that was a
pretty easy choice for me time to go to
King's been about six months on the
course so far and I've been enjoying
every single moment
it's been great so much more relaxed
than my undergraduate degree in Toronto
which might sound a bit weird right
because medical school supposed to be
super super tough and honestly I had a
way harder time at the University of
Toronto but then again it is my first
year and I'm sure things are gonna ramp
up starting next year
other than that it's been a great course
I've met some really great grad rhythm
which is nice because I'm not alone as
an older student in the future I want to
make a bunch of videos on my application
process to both UK and canadian medical
schools i prepared for interviews just a
lot of different topics really and if
you guys have any suggestions for any
videos if there's any topic that you
want to know more about maybe if there's
anything that you're unsure please feel
free to leave a comment and in the table
or send me a message i might make a
video about it next time so yeah i'll
just a little bit of information about
me after getting accepted to all of the
undergraduate medical that